---
layout: post
title: "Linux users- adding and managing them ... basics."
date: "2017-04-04"
slug: "Linux Users"
description: "Adding and managing users is oneof the most essential tasks of anyone who uses a Linux System. I am going to structure this post like an Q and A format."
category:
  - Linux
tags:
  - Linux
  - Manage Users

show_meta: true
comments: true
mathjax: true
gistembed: true
published: true
noindex: false
nofollow: false
hide_printmsg: false
summaryfeed: false
---


<style>
p {
  text-align: justify
}</style>


### How do I create a new user?

Ensure that you are the sudo user. If not, enter the sudo mode using `sudo su` and enter the password when you are prompted! Next, to add an user, use the command `useradd <username>`. Now, after creating the new user, go ahead and set the user a password using `passwd <username>` command. You would be prompted with a little menu to type the **New UNIX  password** and to **Retype the new UNIX password**, to complete setting up the password for this user.

### How do I change the password for this new user?

Use `passwd <username>` to change the existing password!


### Where is the home directory for the new user created?

Usually it is created at `/home/<username>` Egs: /home/newuser1, /home/bharatnc ..

### Creating a user with a different home directory location?

Yes, completely possible. Use the -d flag to achieve this. Like `useradd -d <path to the directory>`. Whatever path that you enter, that will be the home directory of the user that you will be creating.   <br>

You can also add user without a home directory using the `-M` flag.

### How to create a user with a specific userid or groupid?

To create a user with a specific userid, use the command `useradd -u <user id number that you want> <username>`. Eg: `useradd -u 1006 username1`


Use the flag -g to create a user with a specific group id. So, you can create a user with both the custom user and group ids like this: `useradd -u <userid that you want> -g <groupid that you want> <username>`. Eg: useradd -u 1006 -g 1005 username1


### Verifying the created user?

Make use of the etc/passwd file for this purpose - `cat /etc/passwd | grep <your username>`

### Adding a user to a user group?

Use `useradd -G <user group> <username>`. For adding to multiple groups, just separate them using a ",". Eg: `useradd -G grp1, grp2 user1`

### What are some other parameters that you can play with?

Just add these flags when you start creating a user:

1. `-s /bin/bash` - use this flag to set the default user shell for the user. For no shell use /usr/sbin/nologin option with the -s flag.
2. `-c <user custom comment>` -use this flag to add custom comments for the added user.
3. `-N` - This flag creates a user without a group.
4. `-r` - This flag creates a System User.